[Music]
nowadays we take curiosity for granted
we believe that if we put in the hard
work we might one day stand before the
pyramids discover a new species of
flower or even go to the moon but in the
18th and 19th century female eyes gazed
out windows at a world they were
unlikely to ever explore life for women
in the time of Queen Victoria was
largely relegated to house chores and
gossip and although they devoured books
on exotic travel most would never leave
the places in which they were born
however there were a few Victorian women
who through privileged endurance and not
taking no for an answer did set sail for
Wilder Shores in 1860 marianne north an
amateur gardener and painter crossed the
ocean to America with letters of
introduction and easel and a love of
flowers she went on to travel to Jamaica
Peru Japan India Australia in fact she
went to every continent except
Antarctica in pursuit of new flowers to
paint I was overwhelmed with the amount
of subjects to be painted she wrote the
hills were marvelously blue piled one
over the other beyond them I never saw
such abundance of pure color with no
planes or automobiles and rarely a paved
Street North Road donkeys scaled cliffs
and crossed swamps to reach the plant
she wanted and all this in the customary
dress of her day floor-length gowns as
photography had not yet been perfected
Mary Ann's paintings gave botanist back
in Europe their first glimpses of some
of the world's most unusual plants like
the giant pitcher plant of Borneo the
African Torch Lily
and the many other species named for her
as she was the first European to
catalogue them in the wild
meanwhile back in London Miss Mary
Kingsley was the shelter daughter of a
traveling doctor who loved hearing her
father's tales of native customs in
Africa
midway through writing a book on the
subject her father fell ill and died so
Kingsley decided she would finish the
book for him peers of her father advised
her not to go
showing her maps of tropical diseases
but she went anyhow landing in
modern-day Sierra Leone in 1896 with two
large suitcases and a phrase book
traveling into the jungle she was
able to confirm the existence of a venn
mythical creature the gorilla she
recalls fighting with crocodiles being
caught in a tornado and tickling a
hippopotamus with her umbrella so that
he'd leave the side of her canoe falling
into a spiky pit she was saved from harm
by her thick petticoat a good snake
properly cooked is one of the best meals
one gets out here she wrote think
Indiana Jones was resourceful
Kingsley could out survive him any day
but when it comes to breaking rules
perhaps no female traveler was as daring
as Alexandra David Neal Alexandra who
had studied Eastern religions at home in
France oneand desperately to prove
herself to Parisian scholars of the day
all of whom were men
she decided the only way to be taken
seriously was to visit the fabled city
of Lhasa in the mountains of Tibet
people will have to say this woman lived
among the things she's talking about she
touched them and she saw them alive she
wrote when she arrived at the border
from India she was forbidden to cross so
she disguised herself as a Tibetan man
dressed in a yak fur coat and a necklace
of carved skulls she hiked through the
barren Himalayas all the way to Lhasa
where she was subsequently arrested she
learned that the heart of the journey
the better the story and went on to
write many books on Tibetan religion
which not only made a splash back in
Paris but remain important today these
brave women and others like them went
all over the world to prove that the
desire to see for oneself not only
changes the course of human knowledge it
changes the very idea of what is
possible
they used the power of curiosity to try
and understand the viewpoints and
peculiarities of other places perhaps
because they themselves were seen as so
unusual in their own societies but their
journeys revealed to them something more
than the ways of foreign lands they
revealed something only they themselves
could find a sense of their own self
you